Then last night I talked to you about ego.
That how ego manifests itself and how it is difficult to get out of the ego.
It's easy to get out of the conditionings super egos, but very difficult to get out of ego
because ego aggresses others, doesn't trouble you at all.
And you enjoy that aggression,
See now.
Today I want to tell you about how ego has been
historically, traditionally torturing people around.
So you'll see the manifestation of this ego, and then you will know that
if you are playing anything any role with your ego,
you could be part and parcel of that destructive force.
So to begin with we'll see now, when this ego started growing in man.
First of all see, it started growing with the protection,
so
the pituitary, which is within us, started growing when we raised our head, like this.
When we were animals, our head were like this,
at that time the pineal body as it is called, was very powerful.
They say in human beings the pineal doesn’t work out, it is not true, it does.
But they don't know how it works.
So this pineal body within us, was very active when we were animal state.
But when we raised our head, you see a chemical change took place within ourselves
in the sense that our brain started growing in a pyramid,
which I've told you how with the parallelogram of forces and all that it has started growing
into a pyramid, and when it became like that, you see
because first it was only the pineal body looking after the super ego,
up to the animal kingdom, up to the kingdom where
the animals sort of became more sort of humanized,
then the ego started growing.
It's the only animals who can use the matter.
Human beings can use the matter, not the animals.
Animals cannot use the matter for their own purpose.
When they started aggressing the matter, the ego started developing,
and we developed this what you call “the pyramid of our brain”,
we starting growing, more and more and more and more like this.
But when it reached it's height, then we started using our ego more we didn't stop at that point.
We started moving on the other side
so this went down and covered it covered it, completely like that.
That's why we say the pineal body in the human beings doesn't work,
it functions, no doubt, it functions.
As a result of that, you see when we saw this ego was growing,
as a result of that people felt extremely over-confident.
What's wrong?
business started long time back, since the time of Columbus, as I've said
if Columbus had come to India, he would not have seen Me here,
he would have finished all the Indians there.
Not him, he was a very nice man, but those who followed him.
In the same way, this ego started destroying people,
and they had an idea of a triumph, and killing people,
occupying lands, occupying territories, accumulating wealth.
Went on, and on, and on, and on, on this level.
Then from there they started.
When the marriage system started in a proper way,
again the aggression started on the women
and now the women are aggressing men, like that, it's all became so aggressive.
But when you are aggress you don't see that you are aggressing,
this is the problem of the egoistical person.
Though he may be a seeker, though he may be a very genuine seeker, but
if he is in the area of ego, he never feels his own catches,
because the ego is in between, the reality means that.
So he cannot see his own catches, he cannot see how he is aggressing others,
and he doesn't see how he's hurting others, troubling others, torturing others,
and such a person can be extremely arrogant, extremely what you call the “strangulating”.
This is what happens when you get cancer also.
When you get the cancer, what happens, it starts with the left side no doubt.
But when it comes into the person, then he becomes
a person who is vulnerable to a disease or a disease where the person is aggressive.
The cells of the body first develop the aggression; we call it “malignant”.
When this cell comes in contact with others that also becomes malignant.
So that's how the malignancy spreads, and when it spreads what happens?
That supposing in the nose there are some cells which become malignant.
So they start obstructing other organs to grow, the only nose will grow like that.
Not outside but inside.
So they aggress, you see, the aggression starts and
they lose complete control with the whole,
because there is no co-ordination with the whole, they don't see that
the whole has to grow together, and not only the nose, and not only the eyes, isn't it?
and this breaking from the collectivity is the first sign
when you find a Sahaja yogi behaves in a funny way,
that if he is breaking from the collectivity,
then he is nothing but a egoist, no doubt about it; by any argument, by anything.
But a person who is a super ego fellow will stick onto the collectivity;
will try to be very close to the ashram, he'll be very much close to us very much here,
around it, even if we say “we don't want to”, it will be there, why?
Because it realizes that it is aggressed and also it realizes that it can be sly.
So when a left-sided person enters into an ashram,
that person will be very nice, quiet, sweet, everything.
But the entities, the bhoots in him, will aggress the people slyly, they'll torture
but those people can be cured very easily,
because they are troubled and tortured themselves.
But those who are egotistical will be very difficult for them to get out it.
That's why I've been talking about ego yesterday and today.
They can see all aggression, they manifest, what's wrong?
Say now, I was talking about the chemicals.
Now, how did you discover these chemicals?
It is through your ego, through your science.
Now, if the science is not related to God or to the whole, then you go like that,
and then you can produce hydrogen bombs, you can produce these horrible chemicals,
like it's what you call “the fool-hardiness”. You enter into every area,
every place and achieve the power over that,
I think you don't know what that is capable of.
Supposing now you make computers, supposing,
tomorrow these computers will eat you off.
I must tell you now there's a new disease I have discovered in people
that their conscious mind overpowers them.
There was a fellow who was like this, very egoistical, he didn't believe in God also.
He's an Indian and he met with an accident.
His wife is a doctor, she's a friend of Mine, she brought him to Me.
In My presence, he got up and walked off nicely, everything.
But on his own, whenever he wanted consciously to do it, he couldn’t even raise his leg.
Can you imagine?
So with these egoistical people now a new disease is coming
that consciously they cannot do anything.
They cannot do anything, in this will come, I'm promising you now, or I'm warning you now.
As I warned the people who were going left-sided that you will have a horrible disease
and this is the new disease for all the egoists
that consciously they won't be able to move, they'll be mute,
sitting there only, their ego will take over.
It's a very dangerous era when you are born, you must know.
This is the time we are precariously placed:
either you get to God or you go to Hell, there is nothing is between.
So a new disease will come very soon, there is no insanity in it,
nothing, you will be quite alert, but you can't move your hands,
your whole nervous system refuses to work.
That's going to come, very soon it will manifest.
You have seen that egotistical people
have been going on like Hitler and all that, and they have destroyed the world
and they have done so much harm to our value system.
In subtle way we say that all this manifestation of 25 years
of all this horrible hell they have created for us is because of the wars,
because of the wars.
But these wars and things even if you avoid by some chance you avoid it,
still if ego is there it will manifest itself.
If you avoid it outside it will manifest inside and then you will find that you can't just move.
You can't blink, you can't sleep,
you can't move your hands, even now people can't sleep, many.
And I don't want Sahaja yogis to suffer from that horrible disease,
and Western people are more liable to that kind of a thing.
The Sahaja yogis who are trying to get out of the collectivity,
who are asserting their ego under the name of bhoots or whatever it is,
should understand that it is 99% it is ego within us.
And that ego has to be faced.
“Oh, I have a ego, I feel guilty”,
then alright you put it back here, [unclear: on your ear], that's not the way.
That's not the way you'll do it.
Today you are very active, working very hard, doing this,
tomorrow fine you'll be just immobilized.
You can't move and persons don't care in this country
as it is even for people who are alright,
but you'll become like old people who cannot move.
Who see everything, know everything, who are conscious, at a very young age this will happen,
the slightest accident, the slightest disturbance, will just trigger off to that area
where you will be absolutely like a mute person sitting.
You can't move your finger, you can't hold anything.
You will not be in a coma.
Coma happens to people who take pills and things to go to the left,
like drugs and things which take you to the left.
But those who are right-sided you will not be in coma, that’s one thing, is a curse.
You’ll see everything, you'll be alert you know everything but can't even turn your head.
Take it from Me.
That's coming, very soon.
You may be talking, you may not be talking,
it can go to that level, slowly, slowly, you'll find your body will be immobilized.
People don't understand what dangers ego can have.
It is not now the aggression outside so much,
because it goes into left Vishuddhi, and this left Vishuddhi will creates this horrible disease.
Now, how do we control our ego is very important to understand.
First of all you must write your names and beat yourselves with shoes for 108 times to begin with.
Secondly discipline yourself, by disciplining, get up in the morning, do your meditation,
with right hand towards the photograph, left hand this way.
Not to use light at all, not to use sun don't go to the sun at all.
Sun is to be avoided, keep to the moon,
read the books which describes the Maha Kalis of the left-side Shaktis.
Don't read the books like Avadhuta book.
You should never read it because you think you are an Avadhuta, I see, he said
“I'm omnipresent, I'm this thing”, the person start feeing “I am this”.
I was reading the book of Avadhuta,
I said this book, this show what's gone wrong with our incarnations.
What's gone wrong with our incarnations is
they never knew human beings at all, at what level they are.
You come and tell them “I'm formless and form, I'm this and that”, so what?
If you are that, alright, I'm Compassion, I'm Love, I'm Peace, I'm that ... so what?
How do you fill-in these cups?
You have to come down to a human level, that's what they did not try,
and that's why it's all a waste, I think on the contrary
everybody think I'm God, I'm Bramha, Shivo Ham. Finished!
And then they quarrel among themselves.
That growth, that maturity has not come.
It is very shallow, the whole thing become very shallow,
you become a shallow person, and you live with it.
So the first thing practical thing I'm telling you: beat yourself with shoes
and “I'm NOT this”.
Like that you have to start first of all, telling yourself,
if you are a seeker, a truthful seeker, an honest seeker, then I advise you this way,
that you watch yourself in the mirror, and tell yourself:
“Now you Mr Ego XYZ, will you get out from here, I know what I am, you get out”.
You have to get after all this I mean.
Laugh at yourselves, smile at yourself, make fun of yourself.
That's the best, and never feel hurt.
If anybody says “you are egoistical”, and then you'll say “I know"
'I know”: if you know you are egotistical, then how do you go further?
Now ego manifest in so many ways.
Through your eyes, through your ears, through your mouth, through your nose.
Everyway, because you go against God, that is you go against collectivity,
because you go against Shri Krishna, against your Vishuddhi chakra.
That's first thing it manifest.
Nowadays nobody beats people like this, you see, we have become
subtler in our ego manifestation; we use this part, not hands.
It can be that you show temper through your eyes or it can be you flirt with your eyes.
You become adulterous. That is why Christ has said “don't become adulterous”.
So now it is nice that the AIDS can work out through the tears.
It's good.
Used to kiss people, alright, now kiss.
Nobody will kiss now.
You used all your Vishuddhi chakra so far to express all filth.
Now the filth is pouring out.
So, in the second stage when we understand that it is through the Vishuddhi
that is this America we express ourselves, our ego, so what should we do?
First of all, stop talking.
Here the way the people talk, I mean you see, you have just
start opening your mouth like this and like that, you go on and the other is talking,
just you tell them something, they just come on with all the knowledge
they have known everything, A to Z, and you don't know where you are.
How do you stop talking?, I've told you a practical thing, I'll get you betel nuts,
which I'll vibrate, put it in mouth, and you take it out when you have to talk.
Otherwise keep it there, that's Shri Ganesha, don't take it out.
Stop talking.
If you stop talking, your hypocrisy will go away.
It's through our face we are hypocritical, everything works out through Vishuddhi.
Now see, a person who is extremely aggressive you see can also act to be very, very sweet
you see, if they have to exploit you or make money out of you.
They can act, acting; the whole acting comes through this Vishuddhi.
Then you act, “You are a very gentle person, you are very good”.
But you are not, you are aggressive.
So for that you have to know that talking less
will reduce 50% of your hypocrisy and acting, 50%.